Task 1


Nmap, one of the tools used in cyber security to do network analysis on hosts and servers, can be used to identify ports on a host to check for any potential vulnerability.


 So I first started with checking my ip address and tried to ping it and as usual all the ports were closed so I worked around a little more trying different commands and the command given.


PORT   STATE  SERVICE
80/tcp closed http


This is what came while doing my Ip address.


Then I tried a different Ip address of my work laptop and ran the command again with that Ip on my mind and it did work.


135/tcp open  msrpc
139/tcp open  netbios-ssn
445/tcp open  microsoft-ds


After doing some research on these ports as told to find the potential vulnerability here is what I got.


135/tcp MSRPC
    -used by DCOM for network communication which enables remote admin powers.
    -mainly vulnerable to malware, DoS attack.


139/tcp NetBIOS
    -used for windows files and printers sharing in legacy system over TCP.
    -mainly vulnerable to brute force attack and also null session attack where attackers connect
      Without credentials and gather sensitive information.


445/tcp Microsoft-DS
    -hosts SMB(Server Message Block) used for sharing file, authentication and domain service
      a better alternative to NetBios.
    -mainly vulnerable to ransomware infection, data theft and man in the middle attacks




After doing some research on this I ran the command given 
    -nmap -sS ip and ran it
Here -sS is a protocol which make a 3 way handshake happens so if I want to go to a website my device will send SYN(Synchronization Packets) and the other side will give a response SYN ACK to tell it’s ready for the handshake and then to complete our device send ACK again.
Well these handshakes are usually unauthorised and the firewall interrupts and we can get caught that is why we are using the command -sS so as soon as we find the potential interruption of firewall so we reset or terminate the communication by using RTS Packets to kill  This conversion of SYN here is an example of it.


As we can see after a little interruption by the firewall the connection is terminated.


I’ll attach the wire shark file of the entire conversion held between the devices.